welcome. In this video we
will look at the differences between
rising and falling edge triggered
flip-flops and how they are constructed
so first let's start with the the
symbols for the two flip-flops so for
the rising edge flip-flop so you have
the D in this input and you have Q out
as an output and clock is the input and
the symbol looks like this and for the
falling edge triggered flip-flop you
will have D in and Qout the same inputs
and outputs but at the clock you will
still have clock coming in but there is
a bubble at the input the symbol usually
shows like this and you have a clock
coming in so this is the falling edge
this is the rising edge triggered
flip-flop and this is the falling edge
triggered flip-flop so now for the input
stimulus how the respond let's look at
that one so let me draw a clock signal
something like this and then let me draw
a D input
something like this so this is Clock and
this is D in now let's look at the
output for a rising edge triggered
flip-flop so a rising edge triggered
flip-flop looks at the rising edges of
the clock so let's assume that data the
Q out was high initially so it looks
at this rising edge sees that Din is low
so it goes low and at this rising edge
it seems D in is high so it goes high and
then at the next rising edge it sees D in
is still high so it remains high so this
is the rising edge D out this is the
output of the rising edge triggered
flip-flop D out so now let's look at the
falling edge triggered flip-flop so it
will look at the falling edges here so
now assume that the the D out started at
high again so at the falling edge it
goes low of the clock and then the next
falling edge it sees that D in is still
low so it remains low so this is the
output of the falling edge triggered
that's the Q out so I should say Q out
here too it's a mistake so so now how do
these flip-flops differ in construction
so we know we have seen that the
flip-flop is constructed using two
latches so we have the two latches so
let me draw this the first latch
it's connected to the second latch in
series and
now we saw that for the rising edge
triggered flip-flop so this latch is
clear this switch is closed when clock
is high clock is high and these are
closed when clock is low clock is low so
this is for the rising edge triggered
flip-flop so now for the falling edge to
make it a falling edge triggered
flip-flop what we just have to do is we
said that these are switches s 1 s 2 s 1
Prime and s 2 Prime and for the rising
edge s 1 and s 2 prime are closed when
clock is low and s 2 and s 1 prime are
closed when clock is high and this is
for the rising edge triggered flip-flop
now to make it a falling edge triggered
flip-flop what we just have to do is we
just have to invert the function of the
switches so we need to make sure that s
1 and s 2 prime are closed when clock is
low or when clock is high this time so
when clock is high you should close s s
2 Prime and s 1 and when clock is low we
close s 2 and s 1 Prime so what
we did was we made this clock here and
right in green here clock and clock
bar to control these switches and this
will be controlled by a clock the switch
and then
to be controlled by clock bar so once we
do this we can change it to a falling
edge triggered flip-flop